= TextCaptcha

A captcha verification for Rails apps, directly integrated into ActiveRecord.
It uses questions & answers instead of those ugly images.

== Installation

Just run

  gem install text_captcha

== Usage

Just add the validation to your model.

  class Comment < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_captcha
  end

By default the <tt>{:on => :create}</tt> option will be used. You can provide
any other option you want.

  class Comment < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_captcha :if => :new_record?
  end

  @comment = Comment.new

  @comment.challenge
  #=> The colour of a red T-shirt is?

  @comment.challenge_answer = "red"
  @comment.valid?
  #=> true

Note that you can answer the question without worrying about uppercase/lowercase.
All strings are normalized before the comparison. So "ReD", "RED" or "red" will
pass the validation.

You can use TextCaptcha with a non-ActiveRecord class. You just need to
include the <tt>TextCaptcha::Validation</tt> module.

  class Comment
    include ActiveModel::Validations
    include TextCaptcha::Validation

    validates_captcha
  end

  @comment = Comment.new
  @comment.valid?
  #=> false

  @comment.errors[:challenge_answer]
  #=> ["You need to answer the anti-spam question."]

You can disable TextCaptcha without having to remove all validations.
This is specially good when running tests.

  TextCaptcha.enabled = false

  class Comment
    include ActiveModel::Validations
    include TextCaptcha::Validation

    validates_captcha
  end

  @comment = Comment.new
  @comment.valid?
  #=> true

== To-Do

* Add more questions.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2010:

* Nando Vieira - http://nandovieira.com.br

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the ‘Software’), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ‘AS IS’, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
